---
layout: post
title: iPhone 5
tags:
- iphone5
- iphone
- apple
categories: post
description: "Is it that the design is more or less the same? Or that it doesn’t really have much new in the way of real functionality?"
date:   2012-09-12 23:07:10
---
I’ve been thinking about the new iPhone today and trying to process what’s happened. Everyone seems a little off — confused.

Is it that the design is more or less the same? Or that it doesn’t really have much new in the way of real functionality? Or that the [padding around the camera](http://cl.ly/image/2l41190C3G0o) doesn’t feel right?

I don’t think it’s any of these. We’ve been told that Steve Jobs wasn’t involved on the 4S because he was spending all his time on the iPhone 5. I think we were hoping for that last glimmer of brilliance from the person we all loved in some way. His products conveyed so much personality that by using them - we felt we knew him. 

If you watch the launch video - it simply isn’t exciting. Even watching Jony Ive I don’t feel the passion or see the spark in his eye. Their voices aren’t straining with excitement. You don’t feel they are about to jump off their seats. I don’t believe they believe what they are saying. Even the music sounds melancholy. And why are you telling me about quality control? Why are you admitting you are less than perfect? 

"We take changing it really seriously, we don’t want to just make a new phone…" to me sounds like we didn’t know what to change or were too scared to change what has been working so well. I feel their pain - I thought the iPhone 4 bordered on perfection. It is insanely hard to improve.

Everyone needs a savior - and we all [wanted to believe](http://f.cl.ly/items/1Q2R3j323s0G3J423D3E/Screen%20Shot%202012-09-12%20at%205.42.19%20PM.png). Apple may be a victim of their own success. What did we expect really? Built in kitchen sink? We wanted the unexpected. We wanted to be amazed. We wanted to believe that technology could save the world - and it seems that perhaps we needed a magician named Steve Jobs to convince us of that.

Is the iPhone 5 the best phone on the market? Probably. 

Will it make Apple a ton of money? Yes.

Will Apple’s stock price rise even higher? Quite possibly.

Is it magical? I can’t say yes. And that’s the sad part.
