---
layout: post
title:  "The Danger of Labels"
description: “I may be making a mess, but I’m not a mess.”
date:   2013-10-20 23:45:10
categories: post
---

> If we take man as he is, we make him worse. But if we take him as he should be, then we make him capable of becoming what he can be. – Goethe

Designer. Entrepreneur. Teacher. Homeless. Depressed. Heroic. Compassionate. Barista. Writer. Runner.

Sometimes we willingly and actively adopt labels. *I am a graphic designer.* We do this because we seek to belong to something greater than ourselves, and we seek to cement our identity in our own mind and the mind of others. If you can't answer, *What do you do?*, or *What did you major in?* - it creates a lot of uncertainty, doubt, and some awkward conversations. So labels can be useful - they install confidence.

Other times others apply labels on us. Sometimes these labels are positive, *John is compassionate*, sometimes negative, *John is depressed*, or just a matter of fact, *John is a entrepreneur.*

Labels are a mixed bag.

Positive labels require us to live up to a bar that we can never live up to. I will never always be compassionate and when I am not - I will feel that I am deceiving others and myself. Positive labels make us fear that we will fall from grace, and rightfully so.

> That deep fear we all have of being wrong, of being belittled and of feeling less than, is what stops us taking the very risks required to move our companies forward. - Peter Sheahan

Negative labels are obviously dangerous, especially when they hide themselves as being simply factual. *That guy is homeless.* It is just a matter of fact - however we are linking his identity and humanity with a situation which in all likelihood he did not choose. We prevent our ability to think creatively about how the situation could ever be changed. So *that guy* will probably stay homeless.

> This means we need to separate our children from their behaviors. As it turns out, there’s a significant difference between you are bad and you did something bad. And, no, it’s not just semantics. Shame corrodes the part of us that believes we can do and be better. When we shame and label our children, we take away their opportunity to grow and try on new behaviors. If a child tells a lie, she can change that behavior. If she is a liar— where’s the potential for change in that? - Brene Brown in *Daring Greatly*

All labels, whether self-adopted, or externally applied, whether positive, negative, or simply factual can seriously constrain our thinking. We should be reticent to back ourselves into boxes and arguably even more careful to do it to others.

Don't settle for describing someone in a word. It might take a minute longer, but it might also change their life.

> [the child's teacher] said, “Ellen! You’re a mess.” Apparently, Ellen got a very serious look on her face and said, “I may be making a mess, but I’m not a mess.” - Brene Brown in *Daring Greatly*

***

Quotes from [Daring Greatly](http://www.amazon.com/Daring-Greatly-Vulnerable-Transforms-ebook/dp/B007P7HRS4)
