---
layout: post
title:  "Tool Set"
description: "The organization and the environment are in concert. - Kevin Kelly"
date:   2013-10-10 23:07:10
categories: post
---

Tools are certainly an important part of life. But how important are they and why? There are 2 extremes I see:

#### 1. The person who focuses more on the tools than the actual creative output.

Tools are a means to an end. Tools enable you to do something better, faster, cheaper than you could before or something new altogether. There is nothing intrinsically wrong with having a fascination with the tool itself. I do find however the most creative minds I meet don't get hung up with the means and focus on the work at hand.

#### 2. The person who disdains tools.

This person does not understand success.

```
Success = creative_quality * execution
```

and

```
Execution = willpower * ease_of_implementation
```

Coefficients aside, tools generally make ease of implementation easier. This is especially important because *willpower decays over time*.

There is still room for the artist who likes imposing restrictions as a matter of experiment - and I totally encourage that. But in most situations, for most of us, tools matter.

So how much should we focus on tools? Or how we think that a change in the coefficient changes our likelihood of success?

90/10? The biggest risk I find to focusing on tool is thinking that optimizing the tools equates productivity. And one can spend a lifetime perfecting their setup - and accomplish nothing.

Perhaps the mantra should be: Focus on shipping, but be mindful of tools.
